bridges/python/signal/authentication.md, before:

# Authentication
0. Open a private chat with the bridge bot. Usually `@signalbot:your.server`
   * If the bot doesn't accept the invite, see the [troubleshooting page](../../general/troubleshooting.md)

## Linking as secondary device
1. Go to "Linked Devices" in the Signal app settings and add a new device.
2. Send `link` to the bridge bot.
3. Scan the QR code the bridge sends you.

## Registering as the primary device
1. Send `register <phone>` to the bridge bot. The phone should be in the
   international format with no spaces.
2. Once you get the SMS verification code, send it to the bridge.
3. To be able to participate in v2 groups, set a profile name with
   `set-profile-name <name>`.

### CAPTCHA
Refer to the [signald docs](https://signald.org/articles/captcha/) on dealing
with captcha required errors. The bridge supports the same `--captcha`
parameter as signaldctl, but it must be passed before the phone number instead
of after (e.g. `!signal register --captcha signal-recaptcha-v2.03AOLTBLR... +12024561414`).
The `signalcaptcha://` prefix must *not* be included, but everything after it must be.

Commit message:

Discourage registering as primary device

bridges/python/signal/authentication.md, after:

# Authentication
0. Open a private chat with the bridge bot. Usually `@signalbot:your.server`
   * If the bot doesn't accept the invite, see the [troubleshooting page](../../general/troubleshooting.md)

## Linking as secondary device
1. Go to "Linked Devices" in the Signal app settings and add a new device.
2. Send `link` to the bridge bot.
3. Scan the QR code the bridge sends you.

## Registering as the primary device
Note that this method isn't recommended, as it's harder to recover if something
goes wrong. When the bridge is linked as a secondary device, it can always be
unlinked and relinked if something breaks.

1. Send `register <phone>` to the bridge bot. The phone should be in the
   international format with no spaces.
2. Once you get the SMS verification code, send it to the bridge.
3. To be able to participate in v2 groups, set a profile name with
   `set-profile-name <name>`.

### CAPTCHA
Refer to the [signald docs](https://signald.org/articles/captcha/) on dealing
with captcha required errors. The bridge supports the same `--captcha`
parameter as signaldctl, but it must be passed before the phone number instead
of after (e.g. `!signal register --captcha signal-recaptcha-v2.03AOLTBLR... +12024561414`).
The `signalcaptcha://` prefix must *not* be included, but everything after it must be.
