bridges/go/signal/authentication.md, before:

# Authentication
0. Open a private chat with the bridge bot. Usually `@signalbot:your.server`
   * If the bot doesn't accept the invite, see the [troubleshooting page](../../general/troubleshooting.md)

## Linking as secondary device
1. Go to "Linked Devices" in the Signal app settings and add a new device.
2. Send `login` to the bridge bot.
3. Scan the QR code the bridge sends you.
4. Finally, the bot should inform you of a successful login.
   * Chats will not be immediately bridged currently, they will be bridged
     as you receive messages.
   * Signal does not support any kind of message history (even on official apps),
     so the bridge won't backfill any messages.

## Registering as the primary device
Registering as the primary device is no longer supported directly in the bridge.
If you don't want to use the official signal apps, [signal-cli] is recommended
instead.

1. Download the latest release of signal-cli.
2. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 register`
3. Generate a captcha as specified in
   <https://github.com/AsamK/signal-cli/wiki/Registration-with-captcha>.
4. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 register --captcha 'signalcaptcha://signal-hcaptcha...'`
   with the generated captcha code.
5. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 verify 123456`
   (123456 being the code sent over SMS).
6. Send `login` to the bridge bot.
7. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 addDevice --uri 'sgnl://...'` with the URI
   returned by the bridge bot.
8. The bot should inform you of a successful login.
9. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 receive` occasionally to make sure the
   registration remains active.

[signal-cli]: https://github.com/AsamK/signal-cli

Commit message:

Recommend official apps over signal-cli

bridges/go/signal/authentication.md, after:

# Authentication
0. Open a private chat with the bridge bot. Usually `@signalbot:your.server`
   * If the bot doesn't accept the invite, see the [troubleshooting page](../../general/troubleshooting.md)

## Linking as secondary device
1. Go to "Linked Devices" in the Signal app settings and add a new device.
2. Send `login` to the bridge bot.
3. Scan the QR code the bridge sends you.
4. Finally, the bot should inform you of a successful login.
   * Chats will not be immediately bridged currently, they will be bridged
     as you receive messages.
   * Signal does not support any kind of message history (even on official apps),
     so the bridge won't backfill any messages.

## Registering as the primary device
Registering as the primary device is no longer supported directly in the bridge.
Using an official mobile app is recommended. However, if you don't want to use
those, [signal-cli] works quite well too:

1. Download the latest release of signal-cli.
2. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 register`
3. Generate a captcha as specified in
   <https://github.com/AsamK/signal-cli/wiki/Registration-with-captcha>.
4. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 register --captcha 'signalcaptcha://signal-hcaptcha...'`
   with the generated captcha code.
5. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 verify 123456`
   (123456 being the code sent over SMS).
6. Send `login` to the bridge bot.
7. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 addDevice --uri 'sgnl://...'` with the URI
   returned by the bridge bot.
8. The bot should inform you of a successful login.
9. Run `signal-cli -u +123456789 receive` occasionally to make sure the
   registration remains active.

[signal-cli]: https://github.com/AsamK/signal-cli
