bridges/go/setup.md, before:

# Go bridge setup

{{ #include ../selector.html }}

This page contains instructions for setting up the bridge by running the
executable yourself. You may also want to look at the other ways to run
the bridge:

* [Docker](../general/docker-setup.md)
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="whatsapp"></span> YunoHost:
  <a href="https://github.com/YunoHost-Apps/mautrix_whatsapp_ynh">mautrix_whatsapp_ynh<span class="bridge-filter" bridges="whatsapp"></span></a>
* [systemd service](#systemd-service) (at the bottom of this page)

Please note that everything in these docs are meant for server admins who want
to self-host the bridge. If you're just looking to use the bridges, check out
[Beeper], which provides fully managed instances of all of these bridges.

[Beeper]: https://www.beeper.com/

If you need help with setting up the bridge, you can ask in the Matrix room:
[#$bridge:maunium.net](https://matrix.to/#/#$bridge:maunium.net). For help with
setting up other parts like the homeserver that aren't the bridge, refer to
their documentation to find support rooms.

## Step 0: Requirements
* A Matrix homeserver that supports application services (e.g. [Synapse](https://github.com/element-hq/synapse)).
  You need access to register an appservice, which usually involves editing the homeserver config file.
* A PostgreSQL server, v10 or higher (which you should already have for Synapse).
  * Make sure you don't share databases between unrelated programs.
    Shared postgres instance is fine, but shared database is not.
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="whatsapp">**mautrix-whatsapp**: </span>
  A WhatsApp client running on a phone (both physical and virtual phones work).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="signal">**mautrix-signal**: </span>
  A Signal client that can add linked devices (both official mobile apps and
  some unofficial clients like signal-cli work).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="signal">**mautrix-signal**: </span>
  ffmpeg (if you want to send/receive voice messages).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="whatsapp">**mautrix-whatsapp**: </span>
  ffmpeg (if you want to send gifs from Matrix).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="discord">**mautrix-discord**: </span>
  [LottieConverter](https://github.com/sot-tech/LottieConverter) if you want
  to receive animated stickers.

If you want to compile the bridge manually (which is not required), you'll also need:

* Go 1.22+ (download & installation instructions at <https://go.dev/doc/install>).
* libolm3 with dev headers and a C/C++ compiler (if you want end-to-bridge encryption).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="signal">**mautrix-signal**: </span>
  Rust, Cargo, libclang-dev and protoc (if you want to compile libsignal yourself).

## Step 1: Installation
You may either compile the bridge manually or download a prebuilt executable
from the mau.dev CI or [GitHub releases](https://github.com/mautrix/$bridge/releases).
Prebuilt executables are the simplest option, as they don't require having Go
nor libolm installed.

### Option 1: Downloading a prebuilt executable from CI
1. Download the relevant artifacts:
   * linux/amd64: <https://mau.dev/mautrix/$bridge/-/jobs/artifacts/$main_branch/download?job=build%20amd64>
   * linux/arm64: <https://mau.dev/mautrix/$bridge/-/jobs/artifacts/$main_branch/download?job=build%20arm64>
   * linux/arm: <https://mau.dev/mautrix/$bridge/-/jobs/artifacts/$main_branch/download?job=build%20arm>
     <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="all,!signal"></span>
   * or find it yourself on <https://mau.dev/mautrix/$bridge/-/pipelines>
2. Extract the downloaded zip file into a new directory.

### Option 2: Downloading a release
1. Go to <https://github.com/mautrix/$bridge/releases>
2. Download the binary for the architecture you want and save it in a new
   directory.

### Option 3: Compiling manually
1. Clone the repo with `git clone https://github.com/mautrix/$bridge.git mautrix-$bridge`
2. Enter the directory (`cd mautrix-$bridge`)
3. Run `./build.sh` to fetch Go dependencies and compile
   ([`build.sh`] will simply call `go build` with some additional flags).
   * If you want end-to-bridge encryption, make sure you have a C/C++ compiler
     and the Olm dev headers (`libolm-dev` on debian-based distros) installed.
   * If not, use `./build.sh -tags nocrypto` to disable encryption.
     * Note: signal's build.sh script doesn't support extra arguments yet,
       so you have to use build-go.sh manually after building libsignal-ffi.a.
   * As an experimental feature, you can also use `-tags goolm` to use a pure
     Go reimplementation of libolm. Encryption can be supported without a C
     compiler or Olm dev headers with this method.

<div class="bridge-filter" bridges="signal">

  For mautrix-signal, if you don't want to compile libsignal yourself, you can
  download a precompiled `libsignal_ffi.a` from the mau.dev CI and place it in
  `/usr/local/lib` (or some other directory set in `LIBRARY_PATH`). Download links:
  [Linux amd64](https://mau.dev/tulir/gomuks-build-docker/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/libsignal_ffi.a?job=libsignal%20linux%20amd64),
  [Linux arm64](https://mau.dev/tulir/gomuks-build-docker/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/libsignal_ffi.a?job=libsignal%20linux%20arm64),
  [macOS arm64](https://mau.dev/tulir/gomuks-build-docker/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/libsignal_ffi.a?job=libsignal%20macos%20arm64)

</div>

[`build.sh`]: https://github.com/mautrix/$bridge/blob/main/build.sh

## Step 2: Configuring and running
1. Copy `example-config.yaml` to `config.yaml`.
   For v2 bridges using the megabridge architecture, use `./mautrix-$bridge -e`
   to generate the example config and save it to `config.yaml`.
2. Update the config to your liking. See the [initial bridge config](../general/initial-config.md)
   page for recommendations.
3. Generate the appservice registration file by running `./mautrix-$bridge -g`.
   * You can use the `-c` and `-r` flags to change the location of the config
     and registration files. They default to `config.yaml` and
     `registration.yaml` respectively.
4. Register the bridge on your homeserver (see [Registering appservices]).
5. Run the bridge with `./mautrix-$bridge`.

[Registering appservices]: ../general/registering-appservices.md

## Updating
If you compiled manually, pull changes with `git pull` and recompile with
`./build.sh`.

If you downloaded a prebuilt executable, simply download a new one and replace
the old one.

Finally, start the bridge again.

## systemd service
1. Create a user for the bridge:
   ```shell
   $ sudo adduser --system mautrix-$bridge --home /opt/mautrix-$bridge
   ```
2. Follow the normal setup instructions above.
   Make sure you use that user and home directory for the bridge.
4. Create a systemd service file at `/etc/systemd/system/mautrix-$bridge.service`:
   ```ini
   [Unit]
   Description=mautrix-$bridge bridge
   
   [Service]
   Type=exec
   User=mautrix-$bridge
   WorkingDirectory=/opt/mautrix-$bridge
   ExecStart=/opt/mautrix-$bridge/mautrix-$bridge
   Restart=on-failure
   RestartSec=30s
   
   # Optional hardening to improve security
   ReadWritePaths=/opt/mautrix-$bridge
   NoNewPrivileges=yes
   # This may cause issues with libsignal.
   # Should be safe for other bridges
   #MemoryDenyWriteExecute=true
   PrivateDevices=yes
   PrivateTmp=yes
   ProtectHome=yes
   ProtectSystem=strict
   ProtectControlGroups=true
   RestrictSUIDSGID=true
   RestrictRealtime=true
   LockPersonality=true
   ProtectKernelLogs=true
   ProtectKernelTunables=true
   ProtectHostname=true
   ProtectKernelModules=true
   PrivateUsers=true
   ProtectClock=true
   SystemCallArchitectures=native
   SystemCallErrorNumber=EPERM
   SystemCallFilter=@system-service
   
   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target
   ```

Commit message:

Document mautrix-gvoice electron dependency. Fixes mautrix/gvoice#9

bridges/go/setup.md, after:

# Go bridge setup

{{ #include ../selector.html }}

This page contains instructions for setting up the bridge by running the
executable yourself. You may also want to look at the other ways to run
the bridge:

* [Docker](../general/docker-setup.md)
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="whatsapp"></span> YunoHost:
  <a href="https://github.com/YunoHost-Apps/mautrix_whatsapp_ynh">mautrix_whatsapp_ynh<span class="bridge-filter" bridges="whatsapp"></span></a>
* [systemd service](#systemd-service) (at the bottom of this page)

Please note that everything in these docs are meant for server admins who want
to self-host the bridge. If you're just looking to use the bridges, check out
[Beeper], which provides fully managed instances of all of these bridges.

[Beeper]: https://www.beeper.com/

If you need help with setting up the bridge, you can ask in the Matrix room:
[#$bridge:maunium.net](https://matrix.to/#/#$bridge:maunium.net). For help with
setting up other parts like the homeserver that aren't the bridge, refer to
their documentation to find support rooms.

## Step 0: Requirements
* A Matrix homeserver that supports application services (e.g. [Synapse](https://github.com/element-hq/synapse)).
  You need access to register an appservice, which usually involves editing the homeserver config file.
* A PostgreSQL server, v10 or higher (which you should already have for Synapse).
  * Make sure you don't share databases between unrelated programs.
    Shared postgres instance is fine, but shared database is not.
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="whatsapp">**mautrix-whatsapp**: </span>
  A WhatsApp client running on a phone (both physical and virtual phones work).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="signal">**mautrix-signal**: </span>
  A Signal client that can add linked devices (both official mobile apps and
  some unofficial clients like signal-cli work).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="signal">**mautrix-signal**: </span>
  ffmpeg (if you want to send/receive voice messages).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="whatsapp">**mautrix-whatsapp**: </span>
  ffmpeg (if you want to send gifs from Matrix).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="discord">**mautrix-discord**: </span>
  [LottieConverter](https://github.com/sot-tech/LottieConverter) if you want
  to receive animated stickers.
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="gvoice">**mautrix-gvoice**: </span>
  Sending messages with non-workspace accounts requires having Electron installed,
  such that the bridge can run the `electron` binary in headless mode.

If you want to compile the bridge manually (which is not required), you'll also need:

* Go 1.22+ (download & installation instructions at <https://go.dev/doc/install>).
* libolm3 with dev headers and a C/C++ compiler (if you want end-to-bridge encryption).
* <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="signal">**mautrix-signal**: </span>
  Rust, Cargo, libclang-dev and protoc (if you want to compile libsignal yourself).

## Step 1: Installation
You may either compile the bridge manually or download a prebuilt executable
from the mau.dev CI or [GitHub releases](https://github.com/mautrix/$bridge/releases).
Prebuilt executables are the simplest option, as they don't require having Go
nor libolm installed.

### Option 1: Downloading a prebuilt executable from CI
1. Download the relevant artifacts:
   * linux/amd64: <https://mau.dev/mautrix/$bridge/-/jobs/artifacts/$main_branch/download?job=build%20amd64>
   * linux/arm64: <https://mau.dev/mautrix/$bridge/-/jobs/artifacts/$main_branch/download?job=build%20arm64>
   * linux/arm: <https://mau.dev/mautrix/$bridge/-/jobs/artifacts/$main_branch/download?job=build%20arm>
     <span class="bridge-filter" bridges="all,!signal"></span>
   * or find it yourself on <https://mau.dev/mautrix/$bridge/-/pipelines>
2. Extract the downloaded zip file into a new directory.

### Option 2: Downloading a release
1. Go to <https://github.com/mautrix/$bridge/releases>
2. Download the binary for the architecture you want and save it in a new
   directory.

### Option 3: Compiling manually
1. Clone the repo with `git clone https://github.com/mautrix/$bridge.git mautrix-$bridge`
2. Enter the directory (`cd mautrix-$bridge`)
3. Run `./build.sh` to fetch Go dependencies and compile
   ([`build.sh`] will simply call `go build` with some additional flags).
   * If you want end-to-bridge encryption, make sure you have a C/C++ compiler
     and the Olm dev headers (`libolm-dev` on debian-based distros) installed.
   * If not, use `./build.sh -tags nocrypto` to disable encryption.
     * Note: signal's build.sh script doesn't support extra arguments yet,
       so you have to use build-go.sh manually after building libsignal-ffi.a.
   * As an experimental feature, you can also use `-tags goolm` to use a pure
     Go reimplementation of libolm. Encryption can be supported without a C
     compiler or Olm dev headers with this method.

<div class="bridge-filter" bridges="signal">

  For mautrix-signal, if you don't want to compile libsignal yourself, you can
  download a precompiled `libsignal_ffi.a` from the mau.dev CI and place it in
  `/usr/local/lib` (or some other directory set in `LIBRARY_PATH`). Download links:
  [Linux amd64](https://mau.dev/tulir/gomuks-build-docker/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/libsignal_ffi.a?job=libsignal%20linux%20amd64),
  [Linux arm64](https://mau.dev/tulir/gomuks-build-docker/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/libsignal_ffi.a?job=libsignal%20linux%20arm64),
  [macOS arm64](https://mau.dev/tulir/gomuks-build-docker/-/jobs/artifacts/master/raw/libsignal_ffi.a?job=libsignal%20macos%20arm64)

</div>

[`build.sh`]: https://github.com/mautrix/$bridge/blob/main/build.sh

## Step 2: Configuring and running
1. Copy `example-config.yaml` to `config.yaml`.
   For v2 bridges using the megabridge architecture, use `./mautrix-$bridge -e`
   to generate the example config and save it to `config.yaml`.
2. Update the config to your liking. See the [initial bridge config](../general/initial-config.md)
   page for recommendations.
3. Generate the appservice registration file by running `./mautrix-$bridge -g`.
   * You can use the `-c` and `-r` flags to change the location of the config
     and registration files. They default to `config.yaml` and
     `registration.yaml` respectively.
4. Register the bridge on your homeserver (see [Registering appservices]).
5. Run the bridge with `./mautrix-$bridge`.

[Registering appservices]: ../general/registering-appservices.md

## Updating
If you compiled manually, pull changes with `git pull` and recompile with
`./build.sh`.

If you downloaded a prebuilt executable, simply download a new one and replace
the old one.

Finally, start the bridge again.

## systemd service
1. Create a user for the bridge:
   ```shell
   $ sudo adduser --system mautrix-$bridge --home /opt/mautrix-$bridge
   ```
2. Follow the normal setup instructions above.
   Make sure you use that user and home directory for the bridge.
4. Create a systemd service file at `/etc/systemd/system/mautrix-$bridge.service`:
   ```ini
   [Unit]
   Description=mautrix-$bridge bridge
   
   [Service]
   Type=exec
   User=mautrix-$bridge
   WorkingDirectory=/opt/mautrix-$bridge
   ExecStart=/opt/mautrix-$bridge/mautrix-$bridge
   Restart=on-failure
   RestartSec=30s
   
   # Optional hardening to improve security
   ReadWritePaths=/opt/mautrix-$bridge
   NoNewPrivileges=yes
   # This may cause issues with libsignal.
   # Should be safe for other bridges
   #MemoryDenyWriteExecute=true
   PrivateDevices=yes
   PrivateTmp=yes
   ProtectHome=yes
   ProtectSystem=strict
   ProtectControlGroups=true
   RestrictSUIDSGID=true
   RestrictRealtime=true
   LockPersonality=true
   ProtectKernelLogs=true
   ProtectKernelTunables=true
   ProtectHostname=true
   ProtectKernelModules=true
   PrivateUsers=true
   ProtectClock=true
   SystemCallArchitectures=native
   SystemCallErrorNumber=EPERM
   SystemCallFilter=@system-service
   
   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target
   ```
