bridges/go/imessage/mac-nosip/setup.md, before:

# iMessage bridge setup (macOS without SIP)
Please note that everything in these docs are meant for server admins who want
to self-host the bridge. If you're just looking to use the bridges, check out
[Beeper], which provides fully managed instances of all of these bridges.

[Beeper]: https://www.beeper.com/

## Requirements
### Compilation (optional)
* Go 1.16+ (download & installation instructions at <https://golang.org/dl/>)
* libolm3 with dev headers (`brew install libolm`)
* Xcode 12.4+ if you want to build Barcelona yourself

### Runtime
* A computer running a reasonably new version of macOS, with SIP and AMFI
  disabled (see instructions below).
* A Matrix homeserver that supports application services (e.g. [Synapse](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse)).
  You need access to register an appservice, which usually involves editing the homeserver config file.
* A [websocket proxy](https://github.com/mautrix/wsproxy) to receive
  appservice transactions.

## Installation
This form of the bridge consists of two components: [Barcelona] for connecting
to iMessage and mautrix-imessage for connecting to Matrix. mautrix-imessage
will run Barcelona as a subprocess and they communicate over stdio.

You may either compile the bridge and Barcelona manually, or download prebuilt
executables from the mau.dev and jank.crap.studio CIs.

Because Barcelona hooks into Apple's private APIs, you must disable SIP (System
Integrity Protection) and AMFI (Apple Mobile File Integrity) on the Mac for it
to work. Disabling SIP will make your Mac less secure, so you should only do it
on a Mac that you won't use for anything else.

[Barcelona]: https://github.com/open-imcore/barcelona

### Compiling manually
1. Clone the repo with `git clone https://github.com/mautrix/imessage.git`.
2. Enter the directory (`cd mautrix-imessage`).
3. Run `./build.sh` to fetch Go dependencies and compile
   ([`build.sh`](https://github.com/mautrix/imessage/blob/master/build.sh)
   will simply call `go build` with some additional flags).
4. Refer to the [Barcelona build instructions] for building Barcelona.

[Barcelona build instructions]: https://github.com/open-imcore/barcelona/blob/mautrix/BUILDING.md

### Downloading prebuilt executables
1. Go to <https://mau.dev/mautrix/imessage/pipelines?scope=branches&page=1>
2. Find the entry for the `master` branch and click the download button on the
   right-hand side in the list and choose "build universal".
3. Extract the downloaded zip file into a new directory.
4. Download `darwin-barcelona-mautrix` from <https://jank.crap.studio/job/barcelona/job/mautrix/>.

### Disabling SIP and AMFI
**Disabling SIP and AMFI will make your Mac significantly less secure.**

1. Boot into recovery mode (hold Command+R while booting) and open a terminal
2. Run `csrutil disable` to disable SIP
3. Run `nvram boot-args="amfi_get_out_of_my_way=0x1"` to disable AMFI

If you are running macOS in a VM (e.g. through [OSX-KVM]) you may need to
disable AMFI with a boot option. Assuming you are using OSX-KVM and OpenCore,
open the `config.plist` (in `EFI/OC/config.plist`) and change the key
`boot-args` to add `amfi_get_out_of_my_way=0x1` example:

```
<key>boot-args</key>
<string>-v keepsyms=1 tlbto_us=0 vti=9 amfi_get_out_of_my_way=0x1</string>
```

You can also refer to Apple's [official documentation on disabling SIP](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/disabling_and_enabling_system_integrity_protection).

[OSX-KVM]: https://github.com/kholia/OSX-KVM

## Configuring and running
1. Follow steps 1-6 from the [normal macOS setup](../mac/setup.md)
2. Install Barcelona's [com.apple.security.xpc.plist] to `/Library/Preferences/com.apple.security.xpc.plist`
3. In the `imessage` section of the config, change `platform` to `mac-nosip`
   and set `imessage_rest_path` to the path to the `darwin-barcelona-mautrix`
   executable you downloaded or compiled.
4. Run the bridge with `./mautrix-imessage`.

[com.apple.security.xpc.plist]: https://github.com/open-imcore/barcelona/blob/mautrix/com.apple.security.xpc.plist

Commit message:

Login, read receipts, and typing notification docs for nosip

bridges/go/imessage/mac-nosip/setup.md, after:

# iMessage bridge setup (macOS without SIP)
Please note that everything in these docs are meant for server admins who want
to self-host the bridge. If you're just looking to use the bridges, check out
[Beeper], which provides fully managed instances of all of these bridges.

[Beeper]: https://www.beeper.com/

## Requirements
### Compilation (optional)
* Go 1.16+ (download & installation instructions at <https://golang.org/dl/>)
* libolm3 with dev headers (`brew install libolm`)
* Xcode 12.4+ if you want to build Barcelona yourself

### Runtime
* A computer running a reasonably new version of macOS, with SIP and AMFI
  disabled (see instructions below).
* A Matrix homeserver that supports application services (e.g. [Synapse](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse)).
  You need access to register an appservice, which usually involves editing the homeserver config file.
* A [websocket proxy](https://github.com/mautrix/wsproxy) to receive
  appservice transactions.

## Installation
This form of the bridge consists of two components: [Barcelona] for connecting
to iMessage and mautrix-imessage for connecting to Matrix. mautrix-imessage
will run Barcelona as a subprocess and they communicate over stdio.

You may either compile the bridge and Barcelona manually, or download prebuilt
executables from the mau.dev and jank.crap.studio CIs.

Because Barcelona hooks into Apple's private APIs, you must disable SIP (System
Integrity Protection) and AMFI (Apple Mobile File Integrity) on the Mac for it
to work. Disabling SIP will make your Mac less secure, so you should only do it
on a Mac that you won't use for anything else.

[Barcelona]: https://github.com/open-imcore/barcelona

### Compiling manually
1. Clone the repo with `git clone https://github.com/mautrix/imessage.git`.
2. Enter the directory (`cd mautrix-imessage`).
3. Run `./build.sh` to fetch Go dependencies and compile
   ([`build.sh`](https://github.com/mautrix/imessage/blob/master/build.sh)
   will simply call `go build` with some additional flags).
4. Refer to the [Barcelona build instructions] for building Barcelona.

[Barcelona build instructions]: https://github.com/open-imcore/barcelona/blob/mautrix/BUILDING.md

### Downloading prebuilt executables
1. Go to <https://mau.dev/mautrix/imessage/pipelines?scope=branches&page=1>
2. Find the entry for the `master` branch and click the download button on the
   right-hand side in the list and choose "build universal".
3. Extract the downloaded zip file into a new directory.
4. Download `darwin-barcelona-mautrix` from <https://jank.crap.studio/job/barcelona/job/mautrix/>.

### Disabling SIP and AMFI
**Disabling SIP and AMFI will make your Mac significantly less secure.**

1. Boot into recovery mode (hold Command+R while booting) and open a terminal
2. Run `csrutil disable` to disable SIP
3. Run `nvram boot-args="amfi_get_out_of_my_way=0x1"` to disable AMFI

If you are running macOS in a VM (e.g. through [OSX-KVM]) you may need to
disable AMFI with a boot option. Assuming you are using OSX-KVM and OpenCore,
open the `config.plist` (in `EFI/OC/config.plist`) and change the key
`boot-args` to add `amfi_get_out_of_my_way=0x1` example:

```
<key>boot-args</key>
<string>-v keepsyms=1 tlbto_us=0 vti=9 amfi_get_out_of_my_way=0x1</string>
```

You can also refer to Apple's [official documentation on disabling SIP](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/disabling_and_enabling_system_integrity_protection).

[OSX-KVM]: https://github.com/kholia/OSX-KVM

## Configuring and running
1. Follow steps 1-6 from the [normal macOS setup](../mac/setup.md)
2. Install Barcelona's [com.apple.security.xpc.plist] to `/Library/Preferences/com.apple.security.xpc.plist`
3. In the `imessage` section of the config, change `platform` to `mac-nosip`
   and set `imessage_rest_path` to the path to the `darwin-barcelona-mautrix`
   executable you downloaded or compiled.
4. If you want messages sent directly from iMessage to be replicated on Matrix (have the puppet work), you'll need to set up the [shared secret] plugin for Synapse (there may exist other ways to do this using `login-matrix` but the iMessage bridge doesn't seem to support this at the moment). Once you generate a shared secret, use the same secret in the `login_shared_secret` section in the `bridge` section of `config.yaml`. It's worth noting the `m_login_password_setup_enabled` should be `true` when setting up the shared secret plugin.
5. If you'd like to enable read receipts to be sent from Matrix to iMessage after you've set up the puppet, set the `delivery_receipts` in the `bridge` section to `true`. If you'd like to enable typing indicators from Matrix to iMessaage, you should set `sync_with_custom_puppets` to `true` in the `bridge` section.
6. Run the bridge with `./mautrix-imessage`.

[com.apple.security.xpc.plist]: https://github.com/open-imcore/barcelona/blob/mautrix/com.apple.security.xpc.plist
[shared secret]: https://github.com/devture/matrix-synapse-shared-secret-auth
