bridges/python/googlechat/authentication.md, before:

# Authentication
0. Open a private chat with the bridge bot. Usually `@googlechatbot:your.server`.
   * If the bot doesn't accept the invite, see the [troubleshooting page](../../general/troubleshooting.md)
1. Open <https://chat.google.com> in a private browser window and log in
   normally, then extract cookies:
   1. Press <kbd>F12</kbd> to open developer tools.
   2. select the "Application" (Chrome) or "Storage" (Firefox) tab.
   3. In the sidebar, expand "Cookies" and select `https://chat.google.com`.
   4. In the cookie list, find the `COMPASS`, `SSID`, `SID`, `OSID` and `HSID`
      rows.
      * When using Firefox, you may have multiple `COMPASS` cookies with
        different paths. Pick the one where path is `/`.
   5. Form a JSON object with the extracted cookies. It should look something
      like this (field names are case-insensitive):
      ```json
      {
        "compass": "dynamite-ui=...",
        "ssid": "...",
        "sid": "...",
        "osid": "...",
        "hsid": "..."
      }
      ```
2. Send `login-cookie {the json object}` to the bot.
3. Recent chats should now get portals automatically. Other chats will get
   portals as you receive messages.

Commit message:

Add step to google chat auth

bridges/python/googlechat/authentication.md, after:

# Authentication
0. Open a private chat with the bridge bot. Usually `@googlechatbot:your.server`.
   * If the bot doesn't accept the invite, see the [troubleshooting page](../../general/troubleshooting.md)
1. Open <https://chat.google.com> in a private browser window and log in
   normally, then extract cookies:
   1. Press <kbd>F12</kbd> to open developer tools.
   2. select the "Application" (Chrome) or "Storage" (Firefox) tab.
   3. In the sidebar, expand "Cookies" and select `https://chat.google.com`.
   4. In the cookie list, find the `COMPASS`, `SSID`, `SID`, `OSID` and `HSID`
      rows.
      * When using Firefox, you may have multiple `COMPASS` cookies with
        different paths. Pick the one where path is `/`.
   5. Form a JSON object with the extracted cookies. It should look something
      like this (field names are case-insensitive):
      ```json
      {
        "compass": "dynamite-ui=...",
        "ssid": "...",
        "sid": "...",
        "osid": "...",
        "hsid": "..."
      }
      ```
    6. Close the browser window to prevent the cookies being invalidated
       (Google uses refresh tokens, so you need to close the window within
       a few minutes).
2. Send `login-cookie {the json object}` to the bot.
3. Recent chats should now get portals automatically. Other chats will get
   portals as you receive messages.
